Write Custom Rego (#181)
permitio/docs: docs/integrations/gitops/custom_policy.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Write Custom Policies
---

> While Permit.io UI is a good fit for almost every policy configuration need, sometimes developers need to extend their policy configuration to something nonexistent.

Author: ```suggestion
While Permit.io platform is a good fit for almost every policy configuration need, sometimes developers need to extend their policy configuration to something nonexistent.
```

Since Permit.io cloud configuration generates Policy as Code for each user configuration, extending it by writing custom policy code yourself is easy.

This document demonstrates an example of a use-case that is not supported via Permit.io UI but easily possible through Policy as Code extension to the Permit.io UI configuration.

> ## Deny All Rule

Author: ```suggestion
##  The Deny Rule
Before we go diving into the custom policy example, let's give an example of a common scenario where developers would want to extend Permit.io platform configuration with their own code - `Deny` rules.
```

> When a policy is configured in Permit.io UI, whether it’s RBAC, ABAC, or ReBAC, the policy generated is `Allow` policy. This means that if some of the rules allow the user to perform the action, the `check` function will return `true`.

Author: When a policy is configured in Permit.io's UI, whether it's an RBAC, ABAC, or ReBAC policy, the generated policy rules are Allow rules. This means that if any of the rules allow the user to perform the action, the check function will return true.

> When a policy is configured in Permit.io UI, whether it’s RBAC, ABAC, or ReBAC, the policy generated is `Allow` policy. This means that if some of the rules allow the user to perform the action, the `check` function will return `true`.

Author: ```suggestion
When a policy is configured in Permit.io's UI, whether it's an RBAC, ABAC, or ReBAC policy, the generated policy rules are Allow rules. This means that if any of the rules allow the user to perform the action, the check function will return true.
```

> When a policy is configured in Permit.io's UI, whether it's an RBAC, ABAC, or ReBAC policy, the generated policy rules are Allow rules. This means that if any of the rules allow the user to perform the action, the check function will return true.

Author: ```suggestion
When a policy is configured in Permit.io's platform, whether it's an RBAC, ABAC, or ReBAC policy, the generated policy rules are Allow rules. This means that if any of the rules allow the user to perform the action, the check function will return true.
```

> In some edge cases, a developer would want to create a special `Deny` rule, which means if a user does not pass a rule, no matter what, they will get `false` due to the `check` function.

Author: ```suggestion
In some cases, a developer would want to create a special `Deny` rule, which means if a user does not pass a rule, no matter what, they will get `false` due to the `check` function.
```

> For example, we would like to restrict access to a role `tmp-admin` only to boundaries of time, so even if the configured policy returns `true`, the `Deny` rule will block the access.

Author: ```suggestion

For example, we would like to restrict access to a role `tmp-admin` only to boundaries of time, so even if the configured policy returns `true`, the `Deny` rule will block the access.
```

## Writing Custom Policy
Permit.io is based on the open-source policy engine, OPA, and Cedar (TBA more soon) to keep the policy configuration flexible.
Each engine has a Policy language to write policies, Rego, and Cedar (respectively). This article will show an example of writing custom Rego code to extend Permit.io policy configuration.
As the first step, you should follow the following guide to enable the GitOps feature that will let you write custom code.

> If you enable the GitOps feature already, continue to the next step to write the custom deny rule.

Author: ```suggestion

_If you enable the GitOps feature already, continue to the next step to write the custom deny rule._
```

## The `custom.rego` file
Permit.io policy repository structure consists two folders, `permit` and `custom`.
As it might sound from the name, the custom folder is where developers can write the custom Rego code, if you’d look there you’ll find a file named custom.rego with a sample policy script.

> Rego is a logical language (same as Prolog/Datalog), and hence, it could look unnatural for developers who code in common languages, but our rule is quite simple and we will guide step by step.

Author: ```suggestion

_Rego is a logical language (same as Prolog/Datalog), and hence, it could look unnatural for developers who code in common languages, but our rule is quite simple and we will guide step by step._
```

Let’s take a look at the file to understand the initial structure of our custom rule:

> In the first row, you can see the `package permit.custom` declaration. Using this declaration, we can use this custom Rego configuration in other places in our project.

Author: ```suggestion
In the first row, you can see the `package` declaration.
\```
`package permit.custom` 
\```
The purpose of this declaration, is the ability to use this custom Rego configuration in other places in our project.
```

We will use it later to import the custom code to Permit.io centralized policy configuration, so when you use the SDK to call the PDP, the engine will calculate this policy package.

Next, we will find the basic declaration for logical policy, the default value that is equal to false.
```
default allow := false
```
Basically, this is a deny rule, which means every time this policy is calculated, the value is false.

> With the default configuration of Permit.io Rego code, custom policies are calculated in an or operator, which means that if other rule return true we will ignore the false values.

Author: ```suggestion
With the default configuration of Permit.io Rego code, custom policies are calculated in an or operator, which means that if other rule return true we will ignore the false values.
```
```suggestion

With the default configuration of Permit.io Rego code, custom policies are calculated in an or operator, which means that if other rule return true we will ignore the false values.
```

}
```
As you can imagine, we declare a rule that returns `true` only if the `now` date is in the 2023 boundaries.

At this point, our `custom.rego` file should look like this:
```
package package permit.custom

import future.keywords.in
import data.permit.policies
import data.permit.rbac

default allow := false

allow {
    not "rbac" in policies.__allow_sources
} else {
   not "tmp-admin" in rbac.allowing_roles
} else {
   time.now_ns() >= time.parse_rfc3339_ns("2023-01-01T00:00:00+02:00")
   time.now_ns() <= time.parse_rfc3339_ns("2024-01-01T00:00:00+02:00")
}
```

## Test the custom policy
With Permit.io GitOps feature, pushing your changes to the remote repository will immediately affect your tenant with the branch content.
While the built-in Permit.io configuration has detailed Audit log decision output, for the custom Rego, the audit log returns only the result.
You can use the built-in print function in Rego to debug your created custom policy.
For example, if you add the following print in the first allow section, you’ll see all the allowing policies per evaluation in the PDP logs.
```
print(policies.__allow_sources)
```

> ## Enfore the deny ALL policy

Author: ```suggestion
## Enfore the deny policy
```

As we mentioned before, the current Permit.io generated policies evaluate all the `allowing_source` in an `or` operator.

> In our `deny all` example, we would like to calculate the particular `custom` package as an end argument to the total policy evaluation.

Author: ```suggestion
In our `deny` example, we would like to calculate the particular `custom` package as an end argument to the total policy evaluation.
```
